The next cut we're going to be
performing is taking the back leg off.
Often confused with preemptively
calling it a ham,
a ham is when the actual leg is cured,
so we're going to go with the raw name
and this is actually a back leg.
So when I take off the back leg,
I'm looking for a marker and that marker
is this bone right here
called the aitch bone.
So I'm going to actually
leave the sirloin intact with the loin.
So this is going to be broke,
maybe slightly different
than some of the people break it,
but I always like
to leave the sirloin intact
with the long loin itself.
So on this aitch bone, the marker I use,
if I happen to be kind of blowing
through these things at a
at a rapid pace is I'll go roughly
about an inch or a finger width.
And alls I'm going to do is again.
Much like the shoulder,
I'm just going to kind of mark
where I want to go with the saw
but I will be bringing my knife down
into this section here,
the lower section of the leg
and where we get into the sirloin
tip in the belly section
and the flank is all boneless in here.
So I can actually just bring my knife down
and I'll cut through all the way.
What that does for me
is I can pull the flesh apart,
use the hand saw
and I'm not tearing those muscle fibers.
We really want to be cognizant of the fact
when we're using the saw
to just go through bone
the knife through flesh,
we don't want to be tearing muscle fibers,
especially when we get into curing
which the pig
is absolutely the best animal for curing.
We don't want shredded muscle tissue
for salt to maybe not get into.
We want to make sure
we're having maximum coverage of salt,
so we want to minimize
that bacterial growth scenario.
So all that to say,
I've split apart the flesh with my knife.
I can now come in.
I'm just cutting bones I want to keep.
My saw as horizontal as possible
just to get through those bones, and
I just make a few passes until I'm through
and I can come in with my steak knife.
And again, with that reverse grip,
I can just bring it through
all the way down to the cutting board.
And now I've removed the back leg.
A couple of different things we'll talk
about when we get into the back leg is,
you know, curing it for prosciutto,
et cetera,
but for breaking it down at its
primals We have our back leg.